The following is redolent of functions in Windows Task Manager, but on the command line.

COMMAND	DESCRIPTION
&	Add this character to the end of a command/process to run it in the background
ps	Show process status. Often used with grep e.g., ps aux | grep python3 displays information on processes involving python3.

Meaning of aux:
a = show processes for all users
u = show user or owner column in output
x = show processes not attached to a terminal
ps -e
ps -A	Either of these two commands prints all running processes in the system
ps -ef	Print detailed overview
ps -U root -u root	Display all processes running under the account root.
ps -eo pid,user,command	Display only the columns pid, user and command in ps output
top	Display sorted information about processes
htop	Display sorted information about processes with visual highlights. It allows you to scroll vertically and horizontally, so you can see every process running on your system and entire commands.
atop	Display detailed information about processes and hardware
kill PID	Kill a process specified by its process ID PID, which you obtain using the ps command
killall proc1	Kill all processes containing proc1 in their names
lsof	List all open files on the system. (This command helps you pinpoint what files and processes are preventing you from successfully ejecting an external drive.)
lsof -u root	List all files on the system opened by the root user. As the output can be long, you may use lsof -u root | less to keep this list from taking up space in the terminal output.
mpstat 1	Display processor-related statistics, updated every second (hence the 1, whereas mpstat 2 refreshes the output every 2 seconds)
vmstat 1	Display virtual memory statistics (information about memory, system processes, paging, interrupts, block I/O, disk, and CPU scheduling), updated every (1) second
iostat 1	Display system input/output statistics for devices and partitions. virtual memory statistics, updated every (1) second
tail -n 100 /var/log/messages	Display the last 100 lines in the system logs.
Replace /var/log/messages with /var/log/syslog for Debian-based systems.
tcpdump -i eth0	Capture and display all packets on interface eth0
tcpdump -i eth0 port 80	Monitor all traffic on interface eth0 port 80 (HTTP)
watch df -h	Execute df -h and show periodic updates.
To exit, press Ctrl+C.
